Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to be writing some Javascript.
So the first thing we need to do is consider where we can write that javascript and that's where an
editor comes in.
I'm going to be using brackets so this is available at brackets.
Oh and if you already have an editor that you're comfortable with or familiar with you can go ahead
and use that one.
So go ahead.
Open up your editor.
And first of all we need to create a place to hold that javascript.
So we have a few options and we're going to be looking at all three different options that we have in
order to write our javascript so we can include it within an aged him file.
So I'm going to go ahead and create a brain you teach him file and I'm going to just call it Index index
stuff.
H t m l.
So this can serve as our file in order to add javascript into it.
And when we look at coding so coding essentially it is it's a set of instructions we need to pass these
instructions over to the browser and the browser is the one that actually renders these instructions.
So including HCM LCS and Javascript we don't need a server to render these out.
This is all done within the browser.
Let's go ahead and set up her e-mail template.
So we'll start out with each two tags.
And then within the head let's add in a title.
So again opening and closing title and then once you added those in next let's move over to body and
within the body tags.
Let's set up a div here with Hello world.
And also just underneath the div I'm also going to add a button and I'm going to show you why I'm adding
this button afterwards.
But let's just do a button and within the button we're just going to add some text and do.
Click click here or something like that.
So this is basic HVM Now we noticed that we've got opening and closing tags.
And so we've got several elements here and we're ready to go to add javascript to.
Right now there's nothing new.
If you're familiar with age to me all this is just plain h tim L..
And let's look at how we can add javascript into our page.
So the first way that we can add javascript into our age to out elements is as attributes so javascript's
can be added as a special h h to l element.
And this basically triggers some Javascript.
So we just had it in as an attribute.
And this one we're going to add in is the on click and there's a number of these as well so there's
the on select on change on key press down on key up.
There's a number of different ones on drag on drop.
And these all can be added in as attributes and we are going to be looking at these in more detail as
we discuss more about what's available within the document object model.
So that's coming up in the latter sections of this course.
But for now it's just important to understand that we do have a way where we can add some basic javascript
within our elements as an attribute.
So now that I've created this special attribute within my age to all my javascript goes in here and
basically this is essentially the action that's going to happen if this button gets clicked.
So now we've set this up and let's open up our browser so save the file.
This one is called indexed.
H t m-L.
So this one is available within my folder here.
You could place it in any folder because really at the end of the day you don't need a server in order
to run javascript so you can run it from anywhere.
So go ahead.
Pause the video and create this first first Each team will file with some javascript in it and when
you come back.
Let's take a look and we're going to see how this functions within the browser.
So once you've created that go ahead and click it and then open it open it with any browser you want
within the course I am going to be using Chrome.
So I'm going to go ahead and open up within the Chrome browser and I'm going to size it here so this
one as well I'm going to bring down to screen so that I can take a look at the source code as well as
what's being output within my browser.
So we've got a hello world here so this is just aged him out and we've got a button here.
So once we click the button we're going to see that it fires off some javascript it says hello and this
is a simple Windows object window alert a built in function that's ready to go within javascript.